docs/features/plugins/introduction.md, before:

# Plugins Endpoint

![introduction-1](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/7e426681-2bef-4dfc-9b4e-0cf2c09cb1d5)

The plugins endpoint opens the door to prompting LLMs in new ways other than traditional input/output prompting.

The first step is using chain-of-thought prompting for using plugins/tools in a fashion mimicing the official ChatGPT Plugins feature.

More than this, you can use this endpoint for changing your conversation settings mid-conversation. Unlike the official ChatGPT site and all other endpoints, you can switch models, presets, and settings mid-convo, even when you have no plugins selected. This is useful if you first want a creative response from GPT-4, and then a deterministic, lower cost response from GPT-3. Soon, you will be able to use PaLM2 and HuggingFace models, all in this endpoint in the same modular manner.

### Roadmap:
- More plugins and advanced plugin usage
- More LLMs to choose from for both Thinking and Completion Phases
- Alternative prompting methods such as Tree-of-Thought

## Using Plugins 

The LLM process when using Plugins is illustrated below.

![introduction-2](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/789406e1-7345-43d2-823b-8aed0588bb78)

**When you open the settings with the Plugins endpoint selected, you will view the default settings for the Completion Phase.**

Clicking on **"Show Agent Settings"** will allow you to modify parameters for the thinking phase

![introduction-3](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/f3cf33d0-701f-409d-8ef6-f336993df55d)

---

![introduction-4](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/c6a33fb2-aa14-4a88-9467-9f2c429e6338)

- You can specify which plugins you would like to select from by installing/uninstalling them in the Plugin store
- See this guide on how to create your own plugins (WIP)
- ChatGPT Plugins, both community-made and official versions, will be available for use in a future update

### Notes
- Every additional plugin selected will increase your token usage as there are detailed instructions the LLM needs for each one
- For best use, be selective with plugins per message and narrow your requests as much as possible
- If you need help coming up with a good plugin prompt, ask the LLM for suggestions before using one!
- Chain-of-thought prompting (plugin use) will always be more expensive than regular input/output prompting, so be sure it meets your need.
- Currently, the cheapest use will be to use gpt-3.5 for both phases
- From my testing, the best "bang for your buck" will be to use gpt-3.5 for the thinking phase, and gpt-4 for completion.
- Adding to above, if you ask for a poem and an image at the same time, it may work, but both may suffer in quality
  - Instead, ask for a poem first with creative settings
  - Then, ask for a good prompt for Stable Diffusion based on the poem
  - Finally, use the Stable Diffusion plugin by referencing the pre-generated prompt
- Presets are only available when no Plugins are selected as the final review of the thinking phase has a specific system message.
- ⚠️ The **Browser/Scraper, Serpapi, and Zapier NLA plugins** are official langchain integrations and don't work the best. Improvements to them will be made

### Plugins Setup Instructions
- **[Google Search](./google_search.md)**
- **[Stable Diffusion](./stable_diffusion.md)**
- **[Wolfram](./wolfram.md)**
- **DALL-E** - same setup as above, you just need an OpenAI key, and it's made distinct from your main API key to make Chats but it can be the same one
- **Zapier** - You need a Zapier account. Get your [API key from here](https://nla.zapier.com/credentials/) after you've made an account
  - Create allowed actions - Follow step 3 in this [getting start guide](https://nla.zapier.com/start/) from Zapier
    - ⚠️ NOTE: zapier is known to be finicky with certain actions. I found that writing email drafts is probably the best use of it
    -  there are improvements that can be made to override the official NLA integration and that is TBD
- **Browser/Scraper** - This is not to be confused with 'browsing' on chat.openai.com (which is technically a plugin suite or multiple plugins)
  - This plugin uses OpenAI embeddings so an OpenAI key is necessary, similar to DALL-E, and it's made distinct from your main API key to make Chats but it can be the same one
  - This plugin will simply scrape html, and will not work with dynamic Javascript pages as that would require a more involved solution
  - A better solution for 'browsing' is planned but can't guarantuee when
  - This plugin is best used in combination with google so it doesn't hallucinate webpages to visit
- **Serpapi** - an alternative to Google search but not as performant in my opinion
  - You can get an API key here: https://serpapi.com/dashboard
  - For free tier, you are limited to 100 queries/month
  - With google, you are limited to 100/day for free, which is a better deal, and any after may cost you a few pennies

### Showcase

![introduction-5](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/40cd1989-437f-49bb-9055-010e3efc468b)

![introduction-6](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/b009a094-7311-45fb-a7ea-f5010f32ec45)

Commit message:

fix(OpenAPIPlugin.js): change header key from 'id' to 'librechat_user_id' for consistency and clarity
feat(plugins): add documentation for using official ChatGPT Plugins with OpenAPI specs

This commit adds a new file `chatgpt_plugins_openapi.md` to the `docs/features/plugins` directory. The file provides detailed information on how to use official ChatGPT Plugins with OpenAPI specifications. It explains the components of a plugin, including the Plugin Manifest file and the OpenAPI spec. It also covers the process of adding a plugin, editing manifest files, and customizing OpenAPI spec files. Additionally, the commit includes disclaimers about the limitations and compatibility of plugins with LibreChat. The documentation also clarifies that the use of ChatGPT Plugins with LibreChat does not violate OpenAI's Terms of Service.

The purpose of this commit is to provide comprehensive documentation for developers who want to integrate ChatGPT Plugins into their projects using OpenAPI specs. It aims to guide them through the process of adding and configuring plugins, as well as addressing potential issues and

chore(introduction.md): update link to ChatGPT Plugins documentation
docs(introduction.md): clarify the purpose of the plugins endpoint and its capabilities

docs/features/plugins/introduction.md, after:

# Plugins Endpoint

![introduction-1](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/7e426681-2bef-4dfc-9b4e-0cf2c09cb1d5)

The plugins endpoint opens the door to prompting LLMs in new ways other than traditional input/output prompting.

The first step is using chain-of-thought prompting & ["agency"](https://zapier.com/blog/ai-agent/) for using plugins/tools in a fashion mimicing the official ChatGPT Plugins feature.

More than this, you can use this endpoint for changing your conversation settings mid-conversation. Unlike the official ChatGPT site and all other endpoints, you can switch models, presets, and settings mid-convo, even when you have no plugins selected. This is useful if you first want a creative response from GPT-4, and then a deterministic, lower cost response from GPT-3. Soon, you will be able to use PaLM2 and HuggingFace models, all in this endpoint in the same modular manner.

### Roadmap:
- More plugins and advanced plugin usage
- More LLMs to choose from for both Thinking and Completion Phases
- Alternative prompting methods such as Tree-of-Thought

## Using Plugins 

The LLM process when using Plugins is illustrated below.

![introduction-2](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/789406e1-7345-43d2-823b-8aed0588bb78)

**When you open the settings with the Plugins endpoint selected, you will view the default settings for the Completion Phase.**

Clicking on **"Show Agent Settings"** will allow you to modify parameters for the thinking phase

![introduction-3](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/f3cf33d0-701f-409d-8ef6-f336993df55d)

---

![introduction-4](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/c6a33fb2-aa14-4a88-9467-9f2c429e6338)

- You can specify which plugins you would like to select from by installing/uninstalling them in the Plugin store
- See this guide on how to create your own plugins (WIP)
- For use of actual **ChatGPT Plugins** (OpenAPI specs), both community-made and official versions, [read here.](./chatgpt_plugins_openapi.md)

### Notes
- Every additional plugin selected will increase your token usage as there are detailed instructions the LLM needs for each one
- For best use, be selective with plugins per message and narrow your requests as much as possible
- If you need help coming up with a good plugin prompt, ask the LLM for suggestions before using one!
- Chain-of-thought prompting (plugin use) will always be more expensive than regular input/output prompting, so be sure it meets your need.
- Currently, the cheapest use will be to use gpt-3.5 for both phases
- From my testing, the best "bang for your buck" will be to use gpt-3.5 for the thinking phase, and gpt-4 for completion.
- Adding to above, if you ask for a poem and an image at the same time, it may work, but both may suffer in quality
  - Instead, ask for a poem first with creative settings
  - Then, ask for a good prompt for Stable Diffusion based on the poem
  - Finally, use the Stable Diffusion plugin by referencing the pre-generated prompt
- Presets are only available when no Plugins are selected as the final review of the thinking phase has a specific system message.
- ⚠️ The **Browser/Scraper, Serpapi, and Zapier NLA plugins** are official langchain integrations and don't work the best. Improvements to them will be made

### Plugins Setup Instructions
- **[Google Search](./google_search.md)**
- **[Stable Diffusion](./stable_diffusion.md)**
- **[Wolfram](./wolfram.md)**
- **DALL-E** - same setup as above, you just need an OpenAI key, and it's made distinct from your main API key to make Chats but it can be the same one
- **Zapier** - You need a Zapier account. Get your [API key from here](https://nla.zapier.com/credentials/) after you've made an account
  - Create allowed actions - Follow step 3 in this [getting start guide](https://nla.zapier.com/start/) from Zapier
    - ⚠️ NOTE: zapier is known to be finicky with certain actions. I found that writing email drafts is probably the best use of it
    -  there are improvements that can be made to override the official NLA integration and that is TBD
- **Browser/Scraper** - This is not to be confused with 'browsing' on chat.openai.com (which is technically a plugin suite or multiple plugins)
  - This plugin uses OpenAI embeddings so an OpenAI key is necessary, similar to DALL-E, and it's made distinct from your main API key to make Chats but it can be the same one
  - This plugin will simply scrape html, and will not work with dynamic Javascript pages as that would require a more involved solution
  - A better solution for 'browsing' is planned but can't guarantuee when
  - This plugin is best used in combination with google so it doesn't hallucinate webpages to visit
- **Serpapi** - an alternative to Google search but not as performant in my opinion
  - You can get an API key here: https://serpapi.com/dashboard
  - For free tier, you are limited to 100 queries/month
  - With google, you are limited to 100/day for free, which is a better deal, and any after may cost you a few pennies

### Showcase

![introduction-5](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/40cd1989-437f-49bb-9055-010e3efc468b)

![introduction-6](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/assets/32828263/b009a094-7311-45fb-a7ea-f5010f32ec45)
