docs/features/plugins/stable_diffusion.md, before:

# Stable Diffusion Plugin

To use Stable Diffusion with this project, you will need to download and install [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

- Note: you need a compatible GPU. Nvidia is recommended, but there is no clear resource on incompatible GPUs. Any decent GPU should work.

## 1. Follow download and installation instructions from [stable-diffusion-webui readme](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

## 2. Edit your run script settings

### Windows

 - Edit your **webui-user.bat** file by adding the following line before the call command:
- `set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--api`

    - Your .bat file should like this with all other settings default
    ```shell 
    @echo off

    set PYTHON=
    set GIT=
    set VENV_DIR=
    set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--api

    call webui.bat
    ```
### Others (not tested but should work)

 - Edit your **webui-user.sh** file by adding the following line:
 - `export COMMANDLINE_ARGS="--api"`

     - Your .sh file should like this with all other settings default
    ```bash 

    export COMMANDLINE_ARGS="--api"

    #!/bin/bash
    #########################################################
    # Uncomment and change the variables below to your need:#
    #########################################################

    # ...rest
    ```

## 3. Run Stable Diffusion (either .sh or .bat file according to your operating system)

## 4. In the app, select the plugins endpoint, open the plugins store, and install Stable Diffusion
    - You will need the stable diffusion webui API URL, which should be `http://127.0.0.1:7860`
    - Alternatively: you (the admin) can set the value in `\.env` to bypass the prompt
        - `SD_WEBUI_URL=http://127.0.0.1:7860`

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/e33e0133-66c1-4781-9ca8-bbd8c174579c)
![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/a075e5b9-d648-405d-96cf-178af792aabc)


## 5. Select the plugin and enjoy!

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/bbdffdc7-57b0-459e-87c2-c3c2871b74cb)

---

## [Go Back to ReadMe](../../../README.md)

Commit message:

doc update: stable_diffusion.md
update docker specific instruction for Stable Diffusion

docs/features/plugins/stable_diffusion.md, after:

# Stable Diffusion Plugin

To use Stable Diffusion with this project, you will need to download and install [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

- Note: you need a compatible GPU. Nvidia is recommended, but there is no clear resource on incompatible GPUs. Any decent GPU should work.

## 1. Follow download and installation instructions from [stable-diffusion-webui readme](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

## 2. Edit your run script settings

### Windows

 - Edit your **webui-user.bat** file by adding the following line before the call command:
- `set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--api`

    - Your .bat file should like this with all other settings default
    ```shell 
    @echo off

    set PYTHON=
    set GIT=
    set VENV_DIR=
    set COMMANDLINE_ARGS=--api

    call webui.bat
    ```
### Others (not tested but should work)

 - Edit your **webui-user.sh** file by adding the following line:
 - `export COMMANDLINE_ARGS="--api"`

     - Your .sh file should like this with all other settings default
    ```bash 

    export COMMANDLINE_ARGS="--api"

    #!/bin/bash
    #########################################################
    # Uncomment and change the variables below to your need:#
    #########################################################

    # ...rest
    ```

## 3. Run Stable Diffusion (either .sh or .bat file according to your operating system)

## 4. In the app, select the plugins endpoint, open the plugins store, and install Stable Diffusion
### Local Install
- You will need the stable diffusion webui API URL, which should be `http://127.0.0.1:7860`
- Alternatively: you (the admin) can set the value in `\.env` to bypass the prompt
  - `SD_WEBUI_URL=http://127.0.0.1:7860`
### Docker Install
- Use `SD_WEBUI_URL=http://host.docker.internal:7860` in the `.env` file or in the plugins store
- Uncomment the following in `docker-compose.yml` file:
```yaml
 extra_hosts: # if you are running APIs on docker you need access to, you will need to uncomment this line and next
     - "host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/e33e0133-66c1-4781-9ca8-bbd8c174579c)
![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/a075e5b9-d648-405d-96cf-178af792aabc)


## 5. Select the plugin and enjoy!

![image](https://github.com/danny-avila/chatgpt-clone/assets/110412045/bbdffdc7-57b0-459e-87c2-c3c2871b74cb)

---

## [Go Back to ReadMe](../../../README.md)
